(movie reel clicking)
- [Jacob] We've already tackled
the first six seasons of Supernatural,
but this time we're taking
it all the way to season 14,
and I'm going to go out
on a limb and say that
this timeline might be even
more insane than the first half.
So, it's time to save
people and hunt things.
Season six, 2010 to 2011.
It's good we're starting
back up at season six
because this is where the
timeline starts to get
a little weird.
Well, weirder than it already was.
The showrunners decided
to use soap opera time
so that Sam and Dean
could spend a year apart
without them actually having
to spend a year apart.
So while season six should have started
in spring or summer of 2011,
instead it's dated to 2010.
So what happens in that missing year?
Well, Dean starts his new
life with Lisa and Ben.
Castiel pulls Sam out of hell
but his soul is left behind.
Soulless Sam wanders around topside,
but he doesn't tell Dean
because he wants him
to live a normal life.
Castiel starts the angel
civil war against Raphael,
who wants things to go
back to how they were.
Cas needs allies and
makes a deal with Crowley,
who's the new ruler of hell,
to find a way to use
the souls in purgatory.
In the Supernatural-verse,
souls are like atomic bombs
and everyone spends the
season stockpiling them.
Crowley resurrects Samuel Campbell,
Sam and Dean's maternal grandfather,
and other Campbell Hunters
to help him find purgatory.
Soulless Sam joins the Campbells.
Around summer of 2010, Sam
shows up and saves Dean
from a djinn trying to take revenge.
Sam doesn't tell Dean about
his missing soul though.
But, good news!
Dean gets another baby!
This time it's a shapeshifter baby,
and the Winchesters leave
it in the capable hands
of Christian and Arlene Campbell,
who raise it as their own.
Samuel tells them about Alphas,
the patient zero of
monsters created by Eve
that in turn created all other monsters.
Dean's glad that Sam is back and all,
but he's suspicious of Sam and Samuel.
Later, they call down Castiel
while trying to solve a case.
He tells them about the
missing weapons of heaven,
supernatural weapons created
by God and the angels.
After Castiel fights another
angel, he also tells the boys
about the civil war going on in heaven.
You know, it seems like a thing
that maybe he shoulda mentioned.
In the fall, Bobby gets
his soul back from Crowley
after the boys fly to Scotland
and threaten to burn the demon's bones.
In October, Dean briefly
becomes a vampire.
And this is a pretty big deal,
because Sam could have prevented
Dean from getting turned,
but instead appears kinda aroused by it.
On the bright side, the boys
uncover a cure for vampirism.
And they meet the vampire Alpha.
Lisa, though, breaks it off with Dean,
which seems fair when your
partner is always dying
and/or turning into a vampire.
I don't know, I don't know if a vampire
would be a deal breaker for me.
Dean has plenty to distract
him from the break up though.
He finally discovers what's
going on with Sam's soul
in that it's missing.
Samuel is capturing the Alphas
and bringing them to Crowley
so that he can find the entrance to hell.
Crowley says that he
can get Sam's soul back
if they help him catch Alphas.
Later in the fall, it's
revealed that while fairies
and Robert Picardo do exist
in the Supernatural
universe, aliens don't.
Really Supernatural?
You're gonna give me Osiris
and Dragons but not aliens?
Next you're gonna tell me
that there's no Bigfoot.
What, he doesn't?
Well, okay, whatever.
At least that means the
Winchesters don't have to kill him.
The brothers team up with
Meg to capture Crowley,
and Castiel succeeds in killing
him by burning his bones.
Dean makes a deal with Death,
trading his ring to get
Sam's soul out of the Cage.
He's also nice enough to
put a wall in Sam's mind
to keep his memories of the
Cage from driving him insane.
At the end of 2010, Sam
wakes up without any memories
of the year that wasn't,
or the past few months.
But he does have a soul now, yay!
Just in time for a group of dragons
to perform a ritual and
open the door to purgatory,
releasing the mother of all monsters, Eve.
Okay, sure.
In early 2011, the gang discovers
that they need phoenix ashes to kill Eve.
Problem is, phoenixes are extinct.
No sweat, they can just time travel.
We talked about this in the last video.
So Cas zaps them back to March 4th, 1861,
when Samuel Colt killed a
phoenix with his magic gun.
RIP, Fawkes.
Sam, Dean, and Bobby encounter
one of Eve's new monsters,
which Dean dubs Jefferson Starship.
Dean kills Eve with the phoenix ash.
But before she dies she reveals
that Crowley is still alive.
Sam and Bobby are suspicious
of Cas, but Dean defends him.
In the summer, after
tricking still-alive Crowley,
Castiel completes the ritual
to absorb all of the souls from purgatory.
And they don't exactly go down easy.
Cas is driven wild by the
power of all of the souls.
Crowley escapes, but not before
Cas kills his rival, Raphael.
Dean tries to convince
Cas to give up the souls,
but instead of doing that,
Cas declares himself their new God.
Season seven, 2011 to 2012.
Season seven opens in June 2011.
Sam begins to have
hallucinations of Lucifer.
Death tells Team Free
Will about the leviathans,
those super-powerful monsters
that God made all those millennia ago.
And good news, they're
now inside of Castiel.
The leviathans escape Cas's
body and one possesses him.
Leviathan Cas releases all of the monsters
into the local water supply,
because apparently we need
to be even more concerned
about clean water.
The only thing left of
Cas is his trench coat.
It's a good trench coat.
Unfortunately for the boys,
the leviathans turn out
to be impossible to kill.
Also they burn Bobby's house down.
Also, things get worse for Bobby.
This is a bad season for him.
Sam marries Supernatural superfan Becky
after a whirlwind courtship.
Maybe too much of a whirlwind.
Dean teams up with a hunter named Garth
to get to the bottom of it.
The marriage is annulled,
and Garth's just happy to
have made a new friend.
In the fall, two leviathans
posing as Sam and Dean
go on a crime spree
at the orders of their boss, Dick Roman.
Crowley tries to make a deal with Dick,
but the leviathans hate
demons just as much as humans.
In January of 2012,
Bobby discovers leviathans
are allergic to borax.
The gang also uncovers
the leviathans' plot
to make humans more docile
by poisoning the food at
Biggerson's, a fast food chain.
They get away, but not before
Dick Roman shoots Bobby
in the head.
He later dies from his injury.
Goodnight, sweet idjit.
I wasn't lying when I said
things got worse for Bobby.
In the Spring, the boys find out
that a miracle worker called
Emmanuel is actually Castiel.
Meg, who's also on the outs with Crowley,
agrees to keep an eye on
him in a mental hospital.
In April, Dick has one of his
employees, Charlie Bradbury,
try to hack Frank's hard drive.
Charlie learns about the leviathans
and uses her powers for
good, she helps Sam and Dean.
She discovers that Dick has
found the leviathan tablet,
part of the Word of God, and
it's flying back to the U.S.
on a plane borrowed from Donald Trump.
Make of that what you will.
Team Free Will though,
intercepts the tablet.
In May, Kevin Tran, honor
student and prophet of the Lord,
begins to hear angels.
He steals the leviathan
tablet at their bidding.
He's then kidnapped by Edgar
and forced to read the tablet
for the Leviathans.
Later in May, the gang attacks Dick
at his evil corporation, Sucrocorp.
Sam manages to free Kevin.
And in return, Kevin tells
them that they have to destroy
all of the tainted food.
Dean and Cas stab Dick
with a special weapon.
In the resulting explosion,
Dean and Cas are pulled into purgatory.
Also, Crowley manages to pop in
in time to kidnap Kevin
before Sam can stop him.
Because Kevin is the Princess
Peach of this series.
Season eight, 2012 to 2013.
Season eight brings us
another missing year.
It passes while Dean is in Purgatory
and Sam is living a Nicholas Sparks novel.
So if you wanted to have
this timeline make sense,
you'd add two years onto the dates now.
But this is Supernatural.
Logic is for squares.
In fall of 2012, Dean returns
from purgatory without Castiel
but with his new boyfriend,
I mean, totally platonic best
buddy, a vampire named Benny.
Dean finds Sam and learns
he's given up hunting
to have a dog.
Dean then finds a year-old
message from Kevin Tran
on an old cell phone.
It leads them to Kevin's
hiding place in a church.
And hey, he's managed to
steal the demon tablet
from Crowley while he was escaping.
The tablet tells them how to close
the gates of hell forever.
And Kevin is kind enough
to translate it for them.
In December, Kevin is
kidnapped by Crowley again,
along with all the
other existing prophets,
because this kid just can't catch a break.
In better news, Castiel is back.
But he doesn't remember how
he got out of purgatory.
The demon tablet breaks in half
when the gang rescues Kevin.
Kevin gets one half and
Garth hides the other.
An angel named Naomi, which
is a very angel-y name
if you ask me, visits Castiel.
She tells him that the angels
rescued him from purgatory
so that he could spy on Sam and Dean.
In January of 2013, Henry
Winchester, the boys' grandfather,
pays them a visit all the way from 1958.
You'll remember that
from the last Supernatural video we did.
He tells them about the Men of Letters,
a secret society that
protects supernatural
and occult knowledge.
They help him defend the
Men of Letters secrets
from Abaddon, who followed
Henry through time.
And they also adopt the
Men of Letters bunker
as their new headquarters.
In February, Kevin discovers
that the gates of hell
can be closed for good by
completing three trials.
Meanwhile, Naomi tries to
get Castiel to kill Dean,
but he finally breaks her control
and steals the angel
tablet, an ancient scripture
that tells humanity about the angels.
Castiel disappears with it.
To complete the second trial
to close the gates of hell,
Sam goes to purgatory to
take Bobby's soul to heaven.
He completes the trial
with the help of Dean's vampire pal Benny.
Meanwhile, never a dull moment for Kevin,
he starts seeing
hallucinations of Crowley.
And they cause him to
freak out and run off
with the demon tablet.
Later, Crowley tricks
Kevin into translating
both halves of the demon tablet.
At this point Kevin should really
just stop translating (beep).
In May, Crowley captures Castiel.
Crowley reveals that he
has been working with Naomi
to get the angel tablet back.
Sam and Dean find Metatron,
the scribe of God,
who agrees to help them
get both tablets back.
He tracks down Kevin and saves him
just as he's being strangled by Crowley.
Sam then tries to
complete the final trial,
but he's too weak.
Metatron tricks Castiel into
completing the angel trials
under the assumption
that they'll lock all
of the angels in Heaven,
but instead ends up banishing
all of them to earth.
All of the angels fall, Cas's
grace is stolen by Metatron,
and Sam is hospitalized
as a result of the trials.
Season nine, 2013 to 2014.
Season nine opens with Sam in the ER.
Dean allows an angel, who
says his name is Ezekiel,
to possess Sam in order to
heal him from the trials.
But since this is Supernatural,
it has to be a secret and
no one but Dean can know.
Also there's yet another
civil war going on
between the now-fallen angels.
They spend a lot of this
season killing each other off.
By late May, Abaddon is trying
to take over hell from Crowley.
Fully-human Castiel is having a hard time.
The brothers offer to
put him up at the bunker,
but Ezekiel is afraid of being found out
and makes Dean kick Cas to the curb.
In June we learn that
the wicked witch is real,
and so is Oz, which is a fictional world
created by L. Frank Baum,
but aliens still don't exist.
Yeah, I'm still not over that.
Anyway, Charlie lives in Oz now
because Felicia Day has
better things to do, I hope.
Sometime in the summer the
brothers discover Castiel
working at a gas station.
Then in the fall the
brothers finally learn
that their buddy Ezekiel
is actually Gadreel,
the angel who let Lucifer
into the Garden of Eden.
Gadreel teams up with
Metatron, kills Kevin,
and takes off in the Impala.
By now I'm shocked that the brothers
haven't developed worse trust issues
considering everyone is
either a secret angel,
secretly God, or possessed by a demon.
But I guess that's just
par for the course for them
at this point.
Castiel gets his grace back
after killing some fanatic fallen angels
because I guess that's how grace works?
But that leaves Dean and
Cas to team up with Crowley
to track down Gadreel,
who's still possessing Sam.
Sam, possessed by Crowley,
is able to force Gadreel
to return to his original vessel,
but in return he wants
them to kill Abaddon.
In December, Crowley sends
the boys after the First Blade
since that's the only thing
that can kill Abaddon,
a knight of hell.
They find Cain on the way.
Cain agrees to give them the First Blade,
but it can only be wielded by the one
who bears the Mark of Cain.
Dean is worthy of the
mark, but Cain warns him
about the great toll
it takes on its bearer.
Dean's seen a lot at this point,
so he still agrees to bear the mark
so he can wield the First Blade.
By spring 2014, Abaddon
is collecting souls
to build an army.
So now they need to kill her even more.
Sam and Dean capture Gadreel,
but Metatron turns the tables
on them and captures Castiel.
You get captured, and you get captured,
and everybody gets captured!
By June, Castiel is still
Metatron's prisoner.
But he's making good use of his time
by trying to convince Gadreel
that Metatron is bad news,
and there's room on Team
Free Will for another member.
Metatron tries to end the civil war
by uniting all of the angels under him,
but Castiel's there to
lead the dissenting angels.
Angels start attacking humanity,
and it looks like they're
following Cas's orders,
but it turns out that Metatron is the one
who is pulling the strings.
Finally, Gadreel joins Team
Free Will to defeat Metatron.
Dean kills Abaddon,
Castiel captures Metatron,
but they're not getting off that easy.
Metatron kills Dean,
who must be pretty used to dying by now.
But because of the Mark of
Cain, he becomes a demon.
Season ten, 2014 to 2015.
Season ten kicks off with
Dean being resurrected
by the Mark of Cain, which at this point,
look, if you're still here,
you get it, it's Supernatural,
death just does not stick.
Anyway, because he's a demon,
he's working with Crowley.
And Sam is searching for
him, because the rule is
you can't go more than two seasons
without separating the
Winchester brothers.
Meanwhile, Cas is looking
for missing angels,
and Metatron is in heaven in prison.
But how can heaven even have a prison?
Actually, nevermind, I shouldn't even be
asking these questions.
In August, Dean humiliates Crowley
so the demon gives Sam
Dean's location as payback.
In return, Sam gives
Crowley the First Blade.
Soon after, Sam and Cas
cure Dean of demonitis
with purified blood.
Then one of the most important events
in the Supernatural timeline occurs,
Supernatural the Musical premieres.
Rowena, the powerful natural
witch and Crowley's mom
resurfaces in season ten,
ready to (beep beep) up.
Crowley's not too happy to
see his absentee mom again,
and throws her in a dungeon in hell.
There, she begins
plotting against her son.
She spends the rest of the
season manipulating him
and proving that Crowley
wasn't missing much
when she disappeared from
his life for 300 years.
Sometime later, Cas feels bad
about Jimmy Novak's daughter,
Claire, for the first time in five years,
so they go find her.
Meanwhile, Dean's mark is still acting up.
Like, really acting up.
And Dean goes on a murderous
rampage as a result.
Cas tries to make things right with Claire
while the boys try to
get Metatron to tell them
how to get rid of the damned mark.
Oh, and Charlie comes back from Oz world.
Sam and Cas contact ghost Bobby
because we just haven't had
enough Bobby in our lives.
They ask for help to spring
Metatron out of prison,
in hopes that he'll give them
more info about the mark.
Charlie finds the Book of
the Damned in a monastery.
It contains dark magic that
she believes can help Dean
get rid of the mark.
The book originally belonged
to the Styne family,
a bunch of evil magic Frankensteins.
And they're none too pleased
that Charlie has it now.
Around May 2015, the Stynes are mad
about the book being stolen,
so they kill Charlie in retribution.
Dean goes on a good ol'
fashion killing spree
like the mascot of
toxic masculinity he is.
He wipes out the Stynes,
and, look, listen guys,
I know we love Dean, but can we all agree
that he just needs, he needs some help?
I mean, he decides that the
only way to get rid of his mark
is to kill Death, which seems rude
considering how many
solids Death has done them
over the years.
Dean then stabs Death with his own scythe
and opens a portal to the Darkness.
No, sadly, not the band.
They have songs other than
"I Believe in a Thing Called Love,"
and they're all excellent.
Listen to all of them.
Season eleven, 2015 to 2016.
The Darkness, who is named Amara,
which you'll remember
from our first video,
is on the loose and Dean
has the hots for her.
The feeling is mutual, and
she spends the whole season
talking about their connection.
Except now she's a baby,
and that is awkward.
Crowley takes the baby
Amara and feeds her souls
and the brothers do not like this.
Elsewhere, Crowley's mom
and powerful witch Rowena
is trying to start a mega coven,
which is a great name for a metal band.
So anyway, Sam and Dean
go on a hunt with Baby
in an episode that has no
right being as good as it is.
Cas starts tracking down Metatron
to ask for help with Amara.
Meanwhile, Sam, Crowley
and Rowena travel to hell
to ask Lucifer for help.
I mean, any port in a storm, right?
This obviously doesn't go well
and Dean has to save his
brother from hell, again.
Lucifer possesses
Castiel, creating Luciel?
Castifer?
I don't know, I'm gonna go with Castifer.
Castifer sends Dean back in
time to a World War I submarine
to get the Hand of God,
a weapon that may be powerful
enough to kill Amara.
In March 2017, the brothers team up
with two married hunters,
and this episode is important
because the hunters are gay,
one is latino, and neither of them die.
And that's just revolutionary.
Shortly later, Chuck tells
Metatron that he's God
in a twist that I swear they just borrowed
from every fan theory website since 2008.
I'm still reeling from the fact
that they got B-list country
singer Branford Emberton
to play God.
Just kidding, I just made that person up.
But if you look at God, you
might think for a second
that I was actually telling the truth.
And that's kind of the point.
Anyway, the gang all gets together
to try to get Castifer back.
Amara burns Lucifer out of Castiel's body
and everyone thinks he's dead.
Spoilers, he's not, this is Supernatural.
She injures Chuck and the world is ending.
And somewhere in the UK a
British lady is mad about this.
Team Free Will have a new
plan to take out Amara,
they're gonna build a bomb out of souls.
Aw yeah.
Dean and Amara have a heart to heart
and it turns out that Amara
just wants to be close
to her brother Chuck, and that's
why she tried to kill him.
You know, classic family drama.
Chuck and Amara decide to have
some sibling bonding time.
They fix the world and
then just disappear,
but not before granting
Dean his greatest wish,
which is that his mother
wasn't dead, apparently.
Back at the bunker the
British lady, Toni, shows up
and kidnaps Sam just before
undead Mary Winchester shows up.
Season twelve, 2016 to 2017.
Around summer 2016, Dean, his mom, and Cas
try to rescue Sam, who is being
tortured for his past sins
by the series' silliest
villains, mean British people
who are annoyed that the Winchesters keep
almost ending the world.
Not that I don't understand.
Lucifer is also not actually dead,
he's been inside a rockstar
who is surprisingly tragic.
It's the one and only Rick
Springfield, aka Vince Vincente.
What am I reading?
Somebody please save me from
this descent into madness.
Cas and Crowley team up to find him.
In December, after his rockstar
vessel doesn't pan out,
Lucifer possesses the President
which feels very close to home.
Is this political commentary?
And there are still no aliens?
President Lucifer wastes no time
in abusing the powers of his office,
and tries to pressure Ukraine
into investigating Joe Biden,
I mean he gets his secretary pregnant.
Aw, geez, what a slip of the tongue.
Sam and Dean break into the White House,
are detained in solitary
confinement for about two months,
and escape with the help of
the British Men of Letters.
They really should have
given them a better name.
In March of 2017, Mary
teams up with Mister Ketch,
who is a character genetically engineered
to be impossible to care about.
He convinces Mary to
start killing hunters.
They do it.
Team Free Will tries to warn
the secretary, Kelly Kline,
about her baby being evil.
I mean, is this really a surprise?
It is the President's,
I mean, Lucifer's baby.
Kelly goes on the run,
but Cas decides to help
her hide from Lucifer.
A group of hunters storm
the British home base
and kick ass American style.
Mary feels bad about
doing all of the murders,
but her son forgives her and they hug.
So I guess it's all okay
with all of the murders.
On May 18th, 2017, Kelly gives birth,
which creates a tear in space time
that leads to an alternate dimension
with an Apocalypse World version of Bobby.
Oh, and it also kills her.
Crowley and Cas die after
trying to kill Lucifer.
But what's another measly
death at this point?
Mary and Lucifer are pulled
into the alternate universe.
After the fight, Sam finds
the Satan baby, Jack,
is now a teenager.
Yep, definitely tracks for a Satan baby.
Season thirteen, 2017 to 2018.
Y'all, we're almost caught up!
They're gonna let me out of my cage soon.
One day after his birth,
Jack says father a lot
and has black canary powers.
The boys decide to take Jack in.
Sam is ready to accept the spawn of Satan,
but Dean's suspicious.
In the alternate universe,
Lucifer keeps Mary alive
as a hostage, to trade for Jack.
But then they run into Apocalypse
Michael, who is bad news.
In May of 2017, Castiel
is in the big Empty,
where angels go when they die.
He's supposed to be in an eternal sleep,
but he somehow wakes up,
possibly because Jack
just misses him too much.
He learns about the Empty
from the cosmic black goo
that reigns there.
The goo gets sick of all of
the chaos Castiel is creating,
so it boots Cas out of the
Empty and back into realty.
Billie the Reaper is the new
Death, and Castiel is back.
Huzzah!.
In June, Jack runs away,
believing he's a monster.
The boys hunt him down with
Asmodeus hot on their trail.
Asmodeus is the new king of hell
and definitely not
cosplaying Colonel Sanders.
Lucifer escapes Apocalypse
World and returns back
to our world, with the
help of that rascal Kevin,
the Apocalypse World version of Kevin.
Still weak from all they've been through,
Lucifer and Castiel are
captured by Asmodeus
and his henchman, Mister
Ketch, who is still alive
because Chuck, aka God, has abandoned us.
Later that summer, the
crew catches up with Jack.
With the help of a dreamwalker,
Jack is able to find Mary,
but learns that Sam and Dean are trapped
in a very bad place.
The Wayward sisters, Claire, Alex, Jody,
and Donna rescue them.
Rowena is still alive after
dying at Lucifer's hands
a couple of times.
Turns out her resurrection
charm sure came in handy.
Speaking of the devil,
Cas and Lucifer team up
to escape Asmodeus, and then
immediately turn on each other.
In the fall, the boys
look for the demon tablet.
Hey, remember that?
They hope the tablet can open the portal
to the Apocalypse World.
The brothers strike a deal with Ketch
to fight off Lucifer
and Apocalypse Michael.
Ketch is now acting as
a sort of double agent
for the Winchesters.
Asmodeus reveals that he's
drawing power from Gabriel,
who is also not dead, but
we like him so it's cool.
Over in the Apocalypse
World, that world's Zachariah
is going after Jack and Mary,
believing that Jack can open
a rift between the worlds.
But Apocalypse Bobby
arrives in a blaze of glory
and helps Jack and Mary escape.
In the winter,
another iconic Supernatural
episode takes place,
or should I say Scooby-natural
episode takes place.
Cut to Dean's Scooby-Doo impression.
Finally in the spring of
2018, Dean and Ketch make it
to Apocalypse World.
They try to rescue
Apocalypse World Charlie,
who tells them about what
Jack and Mary have been up to
since getting sucked into the world.
Meanwhile, Cas and Sam find Gabriel.
They free him, but as soon as
he's free, he takes off again.
But it's not too long
before he's knocking on their door again,
seeking help after being
injured in a fight.
In the summer, Rowena
and Gabriel work together
to capture Lucifer.
The Winchester brothers travel
through the Apocalypse World
with Cas and Gabriel.
The boys rush to find Mary and Jack,
but Sam is killed by monsters
before they can find him.
His death doesn't stick long, though,
because Lucifer brings him back,
and then Sam takes Lucifer to meet Jack.
I love how at this point we're
just like, and then Sam died,
but whatever, he didn't
actually die, he's fine.
In the fall, the gang makes an attempt
to rescue the people of Apocalypse World.
They open a rift that
allows the Apocalypse folks
to enter our world,
but Michael comes through
the rift with them.
Apocalypse Michael kills
Gabriel and defeats Lucifer,
but both Michael and Lucifer
are locked in Apocalypse World.
Lucifer and Michael team up
and, with their powers combined,
are able to escape.
They attack the bunker.
Lucifer takes Jack's
grace, leaving him human.
Dean says yes to Michael
in order to defeat Lucifer.
Clearly Michael's pact with
Lucifer is short lived.
Dean finally succeeds in killing Lucifer,
but then Michael takes
off with Dean's body.
Season fourteen, 2018 to 2019.
In October of 2018, Dean,
still possessed by Michael,
has been missing for weeks.
Turns out he's busy flying
around the world being a dick.
Apocalypse Bobby is back in our world,
and uses his gruff charm
to try to train human Jack.
Sam has taken charge of
the new Hunter network,
and he and Cas are on the hunt for Dean.
Now tired of flying
around and being a dick,
Michael/Dean begins
experimenting on monsters
by enhancing them with his grace.
Through all of this though,
Dean does manage to
escape Michael's grasp.
Around November of 2018, Jack collapses.
His human and angel
sides are out of balance.
They go to Rowena for help,
but Jack dies before they
can treat his condition.
It turns out that the Empty
is pursuing Jack's soul.
Castiel makes a deal with
the Empty to save Jack,
and successfully brings him back.
Well, for the most part.
To get Jack back they
enlist the help of a woman
who knows Angel magic
that burns off some of her
human soul with each use.
She teaches Jack to use the same magic,
and tells him it's all good,
don't worry about the
whole soul burning thing.
By December, Michael has started making
a roided-up demon army.
Dean, Sam, Jack, and Cas
go to take down Michael,
but in the ensuing fight
Michael repossesses Dean.
The gang captures Michael/Dean
and manages to trap
Michael in Dean's mind.
Without Michael at the
helm, the army disperses.
In early 2019, the boys
accidentally summon
John Winchester from 2003.
This creates another alternate timeline
where Sam is internet famous
and Dean is a serial killer.
Yeah, all right.
Michael manages to break
out of Dean's mind prison
and regain control of his body.
Jack ends up burning up a lot of his soul
in order to save Dean, Sam,
and the rest of the crew from Michael.
Jack kills Michael, but he's
used up almost all of his soul.
Lucifer's former vessel, Nick,
is running around killing people
in order to resurrect Lucifer
and bring him back from the Empty.
Jack intervenes, and kills Nick real good.
Maybe too good.
Kinda seems like Jack's
completely soulless,
that's how hard he killed that guy.
Mary's horrified by what Jack has done,
and he accidentally-on-purpose kills Mary,
to prevent her from
telling the Winchesters
what he's done.
Jack runs away and confuses himself
with visions of a manipulative Lucifer.
Sam, Cas, and Dean trap Jack in a prison,
but he breaks out and he is pissed.
Jack then unleashes mind
controls on the whole world,
compelling everyone to the truth.
God reverses Jack's mind control
and gives Sam and Cas a gun
that can kill anything, including Jack,
but it also kills the person who uses it.
Dean can't bring himself to kill Jack,
so God is the one who pulls
the trigger, figuratively.
He actually just snaps his fingers,
effectively killing Jack, 'cause he's God.
At this point, it's clear that
God is a manipulative (beep)
who has been watching all of this chaos
for his own amusement.
Enraged by this, Sam takes
the gun and shoots God.
But surprise!
Turns out the gun can't
exactly kill everything,
'cause it doesn't kill God,
I mean, also presumably because he's God.
But Sam suffers a bullet
wound to the shoulder.
God is angered by Sam's attack,
so he decides to end the world
by unleashing a plague of
zombies and hell beasts upon it,
including some of the earliest
monsters of the series,
even the ghost hitchhiker
lady from season one.
So how do you go from locusts
to zombies to literally God?
I guess that's what 14
seasons of Supernatural
does to a guy.
Jack wakes up in the Empty.
Billie and the Shadow are
there, and they need to talk.
So ends season 14.
Wow, are you guys as tired as I am?
'Cause I'm exhausted and
I haven't even died once.
The Winchester boys must
be running on fumes.
We've covered an amazing
number of monsters, angels,
and extra-dimensional entities.
But there's more to come
in the final season!
I've been Jacob with Cinematica.
And make sure to subscribe
so you can catch our season 15 timeline
when it does come out.
Until then, I'm gonna,
I'm gonna go lie down.
(dramatic music)